W-11350739-batch-aggregator-clarifications (#2265)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/batch-processing-concept.adoc

    <batch:on-complete><!--8-->
      <!-- processor for result of a batch job -->
      <processor placeholder />
    </batch:on-complete>
  </batch:job>
</flow>
</mule>
----

<1> The message source triggers the Mule flow. Common message sources are listeners, such as an HTTP listener, the Scheduler, and connector operations that poll for new files.
<2> Processors located upstream of the Batch Job scope retrieve and, if necessary, prepare a message for the Batch Job scope to consume. For example, an HTTP request operation might retrieve data to process, and a DataWeave script in a Transform Message component might transform the data into a <<valid_input, valid format>> for the Batch Job scope to receive.
<3> When the Batch Job scope receives a message from an upstream processor in the flow, the <<phase_load_dispatch, Load and Dispatch phase>> begins. In this phase, the scope prepares the input for processing as records, which includes creating a batch job instance in which processing takes place.
<4> The batch job instance executes when the flow reaches `<process-records/>`. At this point, the <<phase_process, Process phase>> begins. This phase processes records.

> <5> Each Batch Step scope contains one or more processors that act upon a record to transform, route, enrich data, or otherwise process the records. You can use also use connector operation to pass processed records one-by-one to an external server. The only unsupported processors are those that perform a request-response operation, such as an HTTP request, which returns a response.

Author: ```suggestion
<5> Each Batch Step scope contains one or more processors that act upon a record to transform, route, enrich data, or otherwise process the records. For example, you might configure a connector operation to pass processed records one-by-one to an external server. The only unsupported processors are those that perform a request-response operation, such as an HTTP request, which returns a response.
```

<7> Additional Batch Step scopes are optional. This example does not contain a Batch Aggregator scope.
<8> After records pass through all Batch Step scopes, Mule completes the batch job instance and reports the results, indicating which records succeed and which failed during processing. You can retrieve or log the result with a Logger or other processor within `<batch:on-complete />`.

[[valid_input]]
== Valid Input to the Batch Job Scope

When triggered by an upstream event in the flow, the Batch Job scope performs an implicit split operation on the Mule message input. The operation accepts any Java Iterables, Iterators, or Arrays, as well as JSON and XML payloads. The scope cannot split any other data format.

If you are working with a data format that is not compatible with the splitting process, transform the payload to a supported format before it enters the Batch Job scope.

[[batch_phases]]
== Phases of Batch Job Processing

Each batch job is divided into separate phases:

* <<phase_load_dispatch>>: Splits <<valid_input, valid input>> into records and prepares the records for processing. This phase takes place within the Batch Job scope.
+

> * <<phase_process>>: Processes records in batches using one or more Batch Step scope and, optionally, Batch Aggregator scopes. To process the records within these scopes, you need to configure other processors, such as connector operations and Mule components, within these batch scopes.

Author: ```suggestion
* <<phase_process>>: Processes records in batches using one or more Batch Step and, optionally, Batch Aggregator scopes. To process records within these scopes, you need to configure other processors, such as connector operations and Mule components, within these batch scopes.
```

> * <<phase_on_complete>>: Issues a report on the result of processing the instance. This phase takes place within the On Complete area of the Batch Job scope.

Author: ```suggestion
* <<phase_on_complete>>: Issues a report object with the result of processing the instance. In Studio, a processor for this phase, such as a Logger, goes within the On Complete area (`<batch:on-complete />` ) of the Batch Job scope. 
```

[[phase_load_dispatch]]
=== Load and Dispatch

When an upstream event in the flow triggers the Batch Job scope, the Load and Dispatch phase begins. In this phase:

. Mule creates a new batch job instance that persists through each phase of a batch job.
+
[[batchJobInstanceId]]
Mule exposes each batch job instance through the `batchJobInstanceId` variable. You can use `vars.batchJobInstanceId` to access the identifier for an instance in any batch processing phase. The auto-generated identifier is a UUID, but you can change it to a more readable name. For details, see xref:batch-job-instance-id.adoc[].
+

> . Mule uses DataWeave to split input to the scope into records and stores the records in a persistent queue. The input is a serialized message payload that Mule splits into a collection of records. During the Process phase, Batch Step scopes pull records from this queue, which is called a _record stepping queue_.

Author: TODO: verify that the record stepping queue is the same persistent queue that the  batch job scope pulls records into

+
This activity is "all or nothing," which means that Mule either successfully generates and queues a record for every item from the input, or the entire event fails with an error type, such as `MULE:EXPRESSION` message, and an error message, such as `"Expecting Array or Object but got String." evaluating expression: "payload".`
+
In Anypoint Runtime Manager, the queue name is prefixed with `BSQ`, for example:
+
image:mruntime-batch-bsq.png[Batch step queue transaction log]
+
. Mule presents the batch job instance and queue of records to its first Batch Step scope for processing.

> Each operation within this phase blocks other execution within the flow until it completes. The logs identify them as `BLOCKING` operations. After this phase completes, the flow continues to execute without waiting for batch processing operations in the next phase to execute or finish processing  records they receive.

Author: ```suggestion
Each operation within this phase blocks other execution within the flow until it completes. The logs identify them as `BLOCKING` operations. After this phase completes, the flow continues to execute without waiting for batch processing operations in the next phase to execute or finish processing records they receive.
```

[[phase_process]]
=== Process Phase

The Process phase begins after the Load and Dispatch phase finishes loading records to the queue and starts execution of a batch job instance. In this phase, Mule pulls records from the queue to build record blocks of the configured batch block size (100 records per block, by default). Then Mule sends the blocks to the Batch Step scope.

> Within the Batch Step scope, processing takes place parallel at the block level, but records within each block process sequentially by default. Mule uses its auto-tuning capabilities to determine how many threads to use and the level of parallelism to apply (see xref:execution-engine.adoc[Execution Engine]).

Author: ```suggestion
Within the Batch Step scope, processing takes place in parallel, at the block level, but records within each block process sequentially by default. Mule uses its auto-tuning capabilities to determine how many threads to use and the level of parallelism to apply (see xref:execution-engine.adoc[Execution Engine]).
```

> During this phase, processors within the scopes can access and modify records using the Mule variables `payload`, `attributes`, and `vars`. There are some special propagation rules for variables (see <<variable_propagation>>).

Author: ```suggestion
During this phase, processors within the scopes can access and modify records using the Mule variables `payload`, `attributes`, and `vars`. See propagation rules for variables (see <<variable_propagation>>).
```

After processing all the records in a block, a Batch Step scope sends the records back to the record stepping queue, where the records await processing by any Aggregator scope within the Batch Step scope or by the next Batch Step scope, if another is present. This process continues until every record passes through every Batch Step scope. At the end of this phase, all records are consumed. They are not available for further processing by downstream processors in the Mule flow.

image::mruntime-batch-step-process.png[Record Stepping Queue for Batch Steps]

As a record is processed, it keeps track of each Batch Step scope it completes.

[[batch_aggregator_processing]]

> By default, a batch job instance does not wait for all its queued records to finish processing in one batch step before pushing them to the next step. Configuring a Batch Aggregator scope (aggregator) changes this behavior:

Author: ```suggestion
By default, a batch job instance does not wait for all its queued records to finish processing in one Batch Step scope before making them available for processing by the next. Configuring a Batch Aggregator scope (aggregator) changes this behavior:
```

* Behavior when the Batch Aggregator scope sets a fixed size:
+

> In this scenario, the aggregator pulls records from the record stepping queue into arrays a fixed size. After processing records in an array, the aggregator sends the records back to the record stepping queue. A processor within the aggregator must be able to receive the array of records as input.

Author: ```suggestion
In this scenario, the aggregator pulls records from the record stepping queue into arrays a fixed size. A processor within the aggregator must be able to receive the array of records as input. After record processing is complete, the aggregator sends the records back to the record stepping queue but _does not propagate_ any changes to the records that take place within the aggregator. In other words, records returned to the queue do not retain changes that take place within the aggregator. 
```

> In this scenario, the aggregator pulls records from the record stepping queue into arrays a fixed size. After processing records in an array, the aggregator sends the records back to the record stepping queue for further downstream processing. A processor within the aggregator must be able to receive the array of records as input.

Author: ```suggestion
In this scenario, the aggregator pulls records from the record stepping queue into arrays a fixed size. After processing records in an array, the aggregator sends the records back to the record stepping queue. A processor within the aggregator must be able to receive the array of records as input.
```

+
image:mruntime-batch-job-process-aggregator-fixed.png[Batch job process with Aggregator with fixed size]
+
/////////

> //TODO: THIS MAY NOT BE 100% CLEAR.

Author: QUESTIONS HERE:
see in comments

// (1) CAN THE RECORDS IN THE BLOCK BE FROM A DIFFERENT INSTANCE? (I think not.)
// (2) WILL THE BATCH STEP EVER WAIT? FOR EXAMPLE, if the block size is 3 but there are 10 records, would _only the last block contain 1 record? Or is it possible for other blocks to contain fewer records than the set size. Everything depends on what's available in the record stepping queue for a given instance when the step goes to pick up the records? (Sounds like the latter is true, but need to check.)
/////////
<1> Each Batch Step scope within a Batch Job scope receives one or more record blocks and starts processing them in parallel.
<2> After processing a record, the Batch Step scope sends the record to the Batch Aggregator scope for further processing.

> <3> The Batch Aggregator scope places records one or more arrays according to its `size` configuration. If fewer records are available from the queue than the configured size, the scope pulls them into the scope for processing. This scenario can occur, for example, when the size setting does not divide evenly into the number of records. The last set of records is smaller than the other sets.

Author: ```suggestion
<3> The Batch Aggregator scope places records into one or more arrays according to its `size` configuration. If fewer records are available from the queue than the configured size, the scope pulls them into the scope for processing. This scenario can occur, for example, when the size setting does not divide evenly into the number of records. The last set of records is smaller than the other sets.
```

> <3> The Batch Aggregator scope places records into one or more arrays according to its `size` configuration. If fewer records are available from the queue than the configured size, the scope pulls them into the scope for processing. This scenario can occur, for example, when the size setting does not divide evenly into the number of records. The last set of records is smaller than the other sets.

Author: ```suggestion
<3> The Batch Aggregator scope places records into one or more arrays according to its `size` configuration. In the case that fewer records are available from the queue than the configured size, the scope pulls that smaller number of records from the queue for processing. This scenario can occur, for example, when the size setting does not divide evenly into the number of records. The last set of records is smaller than the other sets.
```

> <4> After processing records in a given array, the Batch Aggregator scope sends all the records back to the record stepping queue.

Author: TODO: clarify no propagation of changes though

* Behavior when the Batch Aggregator scope is configured to stream records:
+

> In this scenario, the Batch Job scope sends the processed records to its Batch Aggregator scope. The Batch Aggregator scope loads and processes all records for an instance from the record stepping queue and continues  until all records from the current batch step are aggregated and processed.

Author: ```suggestion
In this scenario, the Batch Job scope sends the processed records to its Batch Aggregator scope. The Batch Aggregator scope loads an array with all records for an instance from the record stepping queue until all records from the current batch step are aggregated. A processor within the scope must be able to accept an array of records as input.
```

+
image:mruntime-batch-job-process-aggregator-streaming.png[Batch job process with Aggregator configured for Streaming]
+
<1> Each Batch Step scopes receives one or more record blocks and starts processing them in parallel.
<2> After the batch step processes a record, the batch step sends the record to the aggregator for further processing.
<3> The Batch Aggregator scope continues processing records until there are no more records in the record stepping queue that are waiting to be processed by the current batch step.
<4> The aggregator sends all the aggregated records to the record stepping queue.

Mule persists a list of all records that succeed or fail to process through each batch step. If an event processor in a batch step fails to process a record, Mule continues processing the batch, skipping over the failed record in each subsequent batch step.

At the end of this phase, the batch job instance completes and, therefore, ceases to exist.

[[phase_on_complete]]
=== On Complete

> During this phase, you can configure the runtime to create a report or summary of the records it processed in a given batch job instance. This phase provides system administrators and developers insight into which records failed or succeeded. This phase does not process or provide access to individual records, nor does it pass processed records to downstream processors in the flow.

Author: ```suggestion
During this phase, you can generate a report or summary of the records processed in a given batch job instance. This phase provides system administrators and developers insight into which records failed or succeeded. This phase does not process or provide access to individual records, nor does it pass processed records to downstream processors in the flow.
```

:keywords: connectors, anypoint, studio, batch, batch processing
:page-aliases: batch-job-concept.adoc, batch-execution-order-faq.adoc

Mule batch processing components are designed for reliable, asynchronous processing of larger-than-memory data sets. The components are the Batch Job, Batch Step, and Batch Aggregator.

[NOTE]
====
Mule batch processing components are exclusive to the Enterprise Edition (EE) version of Mule. The components are not available through the open source Mule kernel.

If you are familiar with batch processing in Mule 3.x, see xref:migration-core-batch.adoc[Migrating the Batch Module] for an overview of batch processing differences in Mule 4.x.
====

Common use cases for batch processing include:

* Synchronizing data sets between business applications, such as syncing contacts between NetSuite and Salesforce.
* Extracting, transforming and loading (ETL) information into a target system, such as uploading data from a flat file (CSV) to Hadoop.
* Handling large quantities of incoming data from an API to a legacy system.

> * Routing records to the appropriate processors: Accept Policies and Accept Expression on Batch Step components are batch filters that enable you to route successful and failed records to different processors, or to provide a DataWeave expression that determines which records to accept or skip.

Reviewer: Routing records and handling errors are not use cases for batch processing, it is something that you should do as part of a batch process.

Author: DONE: REMOVED

* Handling failed records and errors.

See xref:batch-filters-and-batch-aggregator.adoc[] and xref:batch-error-handling-faq.adoc[] for examples.

== Architecture

> Mule batch processing components prepare records for processing in batches, run processors on those records, and issue a report on the results of the processing. Record preparation and reporting take place within the Batch Job component. Processing takes place within one or more Batch Step components and, optionally, a Batch Aggregator component within a Batch Step component.

Reviewer: We are missing info here (for example the relibility aspects). We will probably need to work on rewriting this together.

Author: TODO

Author: TODO: add back some reliability issue and create separate issue to add more detail about reliability

Author: DONE added last 2 sentences:

> Mule batch processing components are designed for reliable, asynchronous processing of larger-than-memory data sets. The components are the Batch Job, Batch Step, and Batch Aggregator. The Batch Job component automatically splits  source data and stores it into persistent queues, which makes it possible to process large data sets while providing reliability. In the event that the application is redeployed or Mule crashes, the job execution is able to resume at the point it stopped.

Author: Task for more detail on reliability added to #8 in W-11934285

image:mruntime-batch-job-overview.png[Flow with Batch Components and Processors]

> The processors you place within batch processing components act on records. Each record is similar to a Mule event: Processors can access, modify, and route each record payload using the `payload` keyword, and they can work on Mule variables using `vars`. However, they _cannot_ access or modify Mule attributes (`attributes`) because the Batch Job component ignores them.

Reviewer: Let's rewrite this together too.

Author: TODO: change last sentence to "access or modify Mule attributes (`attributes`) from the input to the Batch Job component."

Author: DONE

[[batch_phases_xml]]
The following example outlines the XML structure of a Mule flow that performs batch processing and returns a report with the results of that processing:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="mule-flow" >
  <!-- processor that triggers the flow -->
  <message source placeholder /><!--1-->
  <!-- message processors -->
  <processor placeholder /><!--2-->
  <processor placeholder />
  <!-- Batch Job component -->
  <batch:job name="Batch_Job"/><!--3-->
    <!-- record processing occurs within process-records -->
    <batch:process-records ><!--4-->
      <!-- Batch Step component -->
      <batch:step name="Batch_Step"/><!--5-->
        <!-- processors that act on records -->
        <processor placeholder />
        <processor placeholder />
        <!-- Batch Aggregator component -->
        <batch:aggregator /><!--6-->
          <!-- processor that acts arrays of records -->
          <processor placeholder />
        </batch:aggregator>
      </batch:step>

>     </batch:process-records>

Reviewer: This tag should be at the end of the steps

Author: FIXED in commit

//1
. The message source triggers the Mule flow. Common message sources are listeners, such as an HTTP listener from Anypoint Connector for HTTP (HTTP Connector), a Scheduler component, or a connector operation that polls for new files.
//2
. Processors located upstream of the Batch Job component typically retrieve and, if necessary, prepare a message for the Batch Job component to consume. For example, an HTTP request operation might retrieve the data to process, and a DataWeave script in a Transform Message component might transform the data into a <<valid_input, valid format>> for the Batch Job component to receive.
//3
. When the Batch Job component receives a message from an upstream processor in the flow, the xref:batch-phases.adoc#phase_load_dispatch[Load and Dispatch phase] begins. In this phase, the component prepares the input for processing as records, which includes creating a batch job instance in which processing takes place.
//4

> . The batch job instance executes when the flow reaches `<process-records/>`. At this point, the xref:batch-phases.adoc#phase_process[Process phase] begins. All record processing takes place during this phase.

Reviewer: It's the batch job state not the flow state.

Author: TODO: "when the batch job instance reaches `<process-records/>`"

Author: DONE

//5
. Each Batch Step component contains one or more processors that act upon a record to transform, route, enrich, or modify data in the records. For example, you might configure a connector operation to pass processed records one-by-one to an external server.
+

> The only _unsupported_ processors are those that perform a request-response operation, such as an HTTP request, which returns a response. Mule processes a batch job as an asynchronous, one-way flow, so the results of batch processing do not return to the Mule flow, nor do the results return as a response to a caller.

Reviewer: You can use a requester as part of a batch step. Not sure what do you mean by this.

Author: TODO: Remove this paragraph.

Author: DONE

//6
. A Batch Aggregator component is optional. You can add only one to a Batch Step component. The initial processor within a Batch Aggregator must be able to accept an array of records as input. Batch aggregation is useful for loading an array of processed records to an external server. It is also possible to use components, such as For Each, that iterate over the array so that other processors can process the records individually. The Batch Aggregator component requires a xref:batch-reference.adoc#ref_batch_aggregator_component[`streaming` or `size`] setting to indicate how to process records.
//7
. Additional Batch Step components are optional. This example does not contain a Batch Aggregator component.
//8
. After records pass through all Batch Step components, Mule completes the batch job instance and reports the results in an object that indicates which records succeed and which failed during processing. You can retrieve or log the result with a Logger or other processor within `<batch:on-complete />`.
+

> The Batch Job component consumes records in the xref:batch-phases.adoc#phase_on_complete[On Complete phase], which occurs after all record processing in a batch job instance finishes, and does not propagate the processed records to external components, outside of the Batch Job component. However, like many Mule components, the Batch Job component provides a way to set a xref:batch-reference.adoc#ref_batch_job_component[target variable] (`target`) property that a downstream component, outside Batch Job, can use to gain access to the _pre-processed payload_ that the Batch Job component receives.

Reviewer: If you want to access the pre-processed payload you will not access the target variable but the payload (the target variable will have the result of the batch execution).

Author: ... can use `payload` to gain access to the _pre-processed payload_ that the Batch Job component receives

Author: DONE: no change

By default, a batch job instance does not wait for all its queued records to finish processing in one batch step before pushing them to the next step. Configuring a Batch Aggregator scope (aggregator) changes this behavior:

* Behavior when the Batch Aggregator scope sets a fixed size:
+
In this scenario, the aggregator pulls records from the stepping queue into arrays a fixed size. After processing records in an array, the aggregator sends the records back to the stepping queue for further downstream processing. A processor within the aggregator must be able to receive the array of records as input.
+
image:mruntime-batch-job-process-aggregator-fixed.png[Batch job process with Aggregator with fixed size]
+
<1> The Batch Job scope builds blocks of records limited by the block size configuration (100 per block, by default). This scope sends blocks of records from each batch job instance for processing within a batch step, the first batch step the scope contains if there is more than one step. If fewer records are available than the configured size, the Batch Job scope sends all records from a given batch job instance to the batch step instead of waiting for more to arrive.

> /////////

Author: /////////
//TODO: THIS MAY NOT BE 100% CLEAR.
// (1) CAN THE RECORDS IN THE BLOCK BE FROM A DIFFERENT INSTANCE? (I think not.)
// (2) WILL THE BATCH STEP EVER WAIT? FOR EXAMPLE, if the block size is 3 but there are 10 records, would _only the last block contain 1 record? Or is it possible for other blocks to contain fewer records than the set size. Everything depends on what's available in the stepping queue for a given instance when the step goes to pick up the records? (Sounds like the latter is true, but need to check.)
/////////

=== Load and Dispatch

This first phase is implicit. When an upstream event in the flow triggers the Batch Job scope, Mule splits the input into records, loads the records into a persistent queue, and starts execution of the instance. This process takes place implicitly, so you do not configure anything to make it occur. However, it is useful to understand the tasks Mule completes during this phase.

> . Mule splits input to the scope using DataWeave. The input is a serialized message payload that Mule splits into a collection of records.

Author: ```suggestion
. Mule splits input to the scope using DataWeave. The input is a serialized message payload that Mule splits into a collection of records.
+
Note that each record is mutable and has a payload and the same set of attributes or variables that it inherits from the input.
```

+
. Mule creates and associated a persistent queue with the new batch job instance.
+
In Anypoint Runtime Manager, the queue name is prefixed with `BSQ`, for example:
+
image:mruntime-batch-bsq.png[Batch step queue transaction log]
+
. For each item generated by the splitter, Mule creates a record and stores it in the queue. This activity is "all or nothing," which means that Mule either successfully generates and queues a record for every item, or the entire event fails during this phase.
. Mule presents the batch job instance and queue of records to its first Batch Step scope for processing.

Each operation within this phase blocks other execution within the flow until it completes. The logs identify them as `BLOCKING` operations.

After this phase completes, the flow continues to execute without waiting for batch processing in the next phase to finish processing the records.

[[phase_process]]
=== Process Phase

> The Process phase begins after the Load and Dispatch phase finishes loading records to the queue and starts a batch job instance. All processing takes place within one or more Batch Step scopes within a Batch Job scope and optionally, within a Batch Aggregator scope within one or more of the Batch Step scopes. Processing during this phase is asynchronous from the Mule flow and does not block other, downstream processing within the flow.

Author: ```suggestion
The Process phase begins after the Load and Dispatch phase finishes loading records to the queue and starts a batch job instance. All processing takes place within one or more Batch Step scopes within a Batch Job scope and optionally, within a Batch Aggregator scope within one or more of the Batch Step scopes. Processing during this phase is asynchronous from the Mule flow and does not block other, downstream processing within the flow.
+
During this phase only, you can access and modify records using the Mule variables `payload`, `attributes`, and `vars`. The records are consumed during this phase, and there are some special propagation rules for variables (see <<variable_propagation>>).
```

=== On Complete

During this phase, you can configure the runtime to create a report or summary of the records it processed in a given batch job instance. This phase provides system administrators and developers insight into which records failed or succeeded. This phase does not process or provide access to individual records, nor does it pass processed records to downstream processors in the flow.

Because Mule processes a batch job as an asynchronous, one-way flow, the results of batch processing do not return to the flow, nor do the results return as a response to a caller. Any event source that feeds data into a batch job instance must be one-way, not request-response.

As a best practice, configure a mechanism for reporting on failed or successful records to facilitate further action where required. During the On Complete phase, you can perform either of these tasks:

* Reference the result object for the batch job instance from elsewhere in the Mule application to capture and use batch metadata, such as the number of records that failed to process in a particular batch job instance.
+

> TODO: HOW DO WE DO THIS?

Author: TODO: HOW DO WE 

Reference the result object for the batch job instance from elsewhere in the Mule application to capture and use batch metadata, such as the number of records that failed to process in a particular batch job instance.

----
Finished execution for instance 'e84b5da0-fd5a-11ec-84a5-147ddaaf4f97'
of job 'w-batch-take6Batch_Job'.
Total Records processed: 1000. Successful records: 1000. Failed Records: 0
----

[[variable_propagation]]
=== Variable Propagation

Each record in a batch job instance inherits event variables from the input to the Batch Job scope. You can access and change the value of these variables in the Batch Step and Batch Aggregator scopes, which run during the Process phase, and you can create new variables within these scopes. For each record within this phase, the variables (and modifications to them) are propagated through the different Batch Step and Aggregator scopes within a Batch Job scope. For example, if record R1 sets a variable `varName: "hello"`, record R2 sets `varName: "world"`, and record R3 does not set this variable, then in the next step, R1 has the value `"hello"`, R2 the value `"world"`, and R3 has no value for that variable.
//TODO: does the variable _exist_ (without a value set) in R3 though? Or does it not exist?

> Though new and updated variables retain any changes that take place during the Process phase, the variables do not propagate to the On Complete phase, nor do any changes to the values of variables during the Process phase. Only variables inherited from the triggering event to the Batch Job scope propagate to the On Complete phase, and standard variables that are part of the batch job report are also present in this phase. It is also possible to create a variable in the On Complete phase that persists through the phase but not after the phase completes. In the On Complete report, you find the final set variables for a batch job instance, for example:

Author: ```suggestion
Though new and updated variables retain any changes that take place during the Process phase, the variables do not propagate to the On Complete phase, nor do any changes to the values of variables during the Process phase. Only variables inherited from the triggering event to the Batch Job scope propagate to the On Complete phase, and standard variables that are part of the batch job report, such as `batchJobInstanceId`, are also present in this phase. It is also possible to create a variable in the On Complete phase that persists through the phase but not after the phase completes. In the On Complete report, you find the final set variables for a batch job instance, for example:
```

----

The fields in the report object (a `BatchJobResult`) are accessible as keys when using DataWeave selectors, such as `payload.failedRecords` to return the number of failed records in the instance.

If you leave the On Complete phase empty and do not reference the batch job result object from elsewhere in your application, the batch job simply completes, whether failed or successful. However, after Mule completes execution of an entire batch job instance, the logs provide some processing information, for example:

----
Finished execution for instance 'e84b5da0-fd5a-11ec-84a5-147ddaaf4f97'
of job 'w-batch-take6Batch_Job'.
Total Records processed: 1000. Successful records: 1000. Failed Records: 0
----

[[variable_propagation]]
=== Variable Propagation

Each record in a batch job instance inherits variables from the input to the Batch Job scope. You can access the values of these variables from within a Batch Step component but not within the Batch Aggregator scope.

> Every record has its own set of variables, so new variables or modifications of already-existing variables during the processing of a given record will not be visible while processing another record. For each record, those variables (and modifications) are propagated through the different Batch Steps. For example, if record R1 sets a variable `varName: "hello"`, record R2 sets `varName: "world"`, and record R3 does not set this variable, then in the next step, R1 will see the value `"hello"`, R2 the value `"world"` and R3 will not see any value for that variable.

Author: IN PROGRESS: THIS HAS NOT BEEN INCORPORATED INTO THE NEW, PRECEDING PARAGRAPH, WHICH ALSO REQUIRES MORE WORK.

----
Finished execution for instance 'e84b5da0-fd5a-11ec-84a5-147ddaaf4f97'
of job 'w-batch-take6Batch_Job'.
Total Records processed: 1000. Successful records: 1000. Failed Records: 0
----

[[variable_propagation]]
=== Variable Propagation

Each record in a batch job instance inherits event variables from the input to the Batch Job scope. You can access and change the value of these variables in the Batch Step and Batch Aggregator scopes, which run during the Process phase, and you can create new variables within these scopes. For each record within this phase, the variables (and modifications to them) are propagated through the different Batch Step and Aggregator scopes within a Batch Job scope. For example, if record R1 sets a variable `varName: "hello"`, record R2 sets `varName: "world"`, and record R3 does not set this variable, then in the next step, R1 has the value `"hello"`, R2 the value `"world"`, and R3 has no value for that variable.

> //TODO: does the variable _exist_ (without a value set) in R3 though? Or does it not exist?

Author: //TODO: does the variable _exist_ (without a value set) in R3 though? Or does it not exist?

Author: OR DOES IT DEPEND ON HOW THE VARIABLE WAS CREATED?

dataType: 'SimpleDataType{type=java.lang.String, mimeType='*/*'}'],
myOnCompleteVar=TypedValue[value: 'Hello On Complete Variable', dataType: 'SimpleDataType{type=java.lang.String, mimeType='*/*; charset=UTF-8'}']}
----

Variables in the report object example follow:

* `myVariable` is an example of a variable created before reaching the Batch Job scope. This variable retains the value it had when it entered the scope. Any changes to the value during the Process phase are not retained in the On Complete phase.
* `batchJobInstanceId` is a standard variable that identifies a batch job instance.
* `myOnCompleteVar` is an example of a variable created within the On Complete phase. It appears in the report but does not persist after the On Complete phase ends.

Downstream from the Batch Job scope, only `myVariable` persists. Like the records and their attributes, the variables of the records are completely consumed within the Batch Job scope. The batch job instance executes asynchronously from the rest of the flow, so no variable created within the Process or On Complete phases persists outside of the Batch Job scope.

> //TODO: THIS SECTION COULD/SHOULD MOVE TO A REFERENCE

Author: TODO

 event: e835b2c0-fd5a-11ec-84a5-147ddaaf4f97]
org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor:
{onCompletePhaseException=null, loadingPhaseException=null, totalRecords=1000, elapsedTimeInMillis=117, failedOnCompletePhase=false, failedRecords=0, loadedRecords=1000, failedOnInputPhase=false, successfulRecords=1000, inputPhaseException=null, processedRecords=10, failedOnLoadingPhase=false, batchJobInstanceId=e84b5da0-fd5a-11ec-84a5-147ddaaf4f97}
----

The fields in the report object (a `BatchJobResult`) are accessible as keys when using DataWeave selectors, such as `payload.failedRecords` to return the number of failed records in the instance.

If you leave the On Complete phase empty and do not reference the batch job result object from elsewhere in your application, the batch job simply completes, whether failed or successful. However, after Mule completes execution of an entire batch job instance, the logs provide some processing information, for example:

----
Finished execution for instance 'e84b5da0-fd5a-11ec-84a5-147ddaaf4f97'
of job 'w-batch-take6Batch_Job'.
Total Records processed: 1000. Successful records: 1000. Failed Records: 0
---

> === Variable Propagation

Author: ```suggestion
[[variable_propagation]]
=== Variable Propagation
```
